# Hydrogeology projects

A technical website dedicated to **hydrogeology**

Hydrogeology is a branch of geology that focuses on 
the study of groundwater: its occurrence, movement, 
distribution, and quality within the Earth's 
subsurface. It encompasses various scientific 
disciplines such as geology, hydrology, chemistry, 
and physics to understand the complex interactions 
between surface water, groundwater, soil, and rock 
formations.

Hydrogeologists investigate the properties of 
aquifers, which are underground layers of permeable 
rock or sediment that can store and transmit 
groundwater. They analyze factors such as porosity, 
permeability, and hydraulic conductivity to assess 
the movement of groundwater through geological 
formations.

The field of hydrogeology plays a critical role in 
water resource management, environmental protection, 
and engineering projects such as groundwater 
exploration, well design, groundwater remediation, 
and sustainable groundwater usage.

Hydrogeologists utilize various techniques and tools 
including geological mapping, groundwater modeling, 
remote sensing, and geophysical surveys to 
characterize groundwater systems and assess their 
vulnerability to contamination or depletion.

Overall, hydrogeology is essential for understanding 
the complex dynamics of groundwater resources and 
addressing challenges related to water availability, 
sustainability, and environmental protection.

These are some interesting links: 

 - https://github.com/ihassen/awesome-open-hydrology
 - https://github.com/ihassen/awesome-open-climate-science
 - https://github.com/ihassen/awesome-open-geoscience
 - https://github.com/ihassen/awesome-open-geoscience